Just before we move on to see SS I'd like to take a couple of videos to show you how to set up the web
hosting that comes with the Course now is a good time to do this because you've just completed your
first ever web page.
And I'm sure you're itching to share it with the world and the web hosting is the ideal way to do this.
I'm assuming that you follow these steps in the how to get the free stuff and have an eco web hosting
account.
If you haven't then jump back to that video and follow the instructions there.
If you have then go to either web hosting daquiri UK slash slash Slash'em I should also say that if
you want to work with a different web host or you don't want web hosting at all then feel free to miss
out the next couple of videos.
But if you're not sure then stick with me because the web hosting adds a huge amount of power to what
you can do with the course.
So this is your customer area a cooperating Dockerty UK CCP slash home here.
You can create a hosting package which is what we're going to do next.
Or you can register a domain name.
You don't need to do that but if you want to be able to use your own domain name such as Robert Percival
Dakoda UK then you will need to purchase the domain name itself.
You're very welcome to do that with another company as well.
Feel free to compare prices and go with the cheapest one.
We've got some other options down here but for now we're not going to investigate any of those.
We're going to go straight to creating a hosting package so a hosting package is a place to store everything
to do with your web site you can upload files to it.
You can create databases as we'll see later on in the course and you can even create email addresses
and manage your email through the hosting package.
So all you have to enter here is a domain name and I'm going to put in Rob Percival's test hosting package
dot com.
You can select the hosting package type that you need.
I would go for the advanced unlimited because that offers you the most features and bear in mind that
you'll want to create a domain name that no one else has chosen before.
So if you try and put Google dot com in there it probably won't work because they'll already be a domain
on our system called Google dot com.
If you're really having problems finding a domain name that's not already taken.
Just put some numbers on the end like that.
OK so then click Create hosting package and in the background.
And through everything that needs to be set up for that hosting package and they would go.
So that's all been set up.
You'll receive an email with all the details for the package.
But the easiest way to log in is go down to manage your services and manage hosting packages.
And then you should see your hosting package in this list.
I've got a number of packages that I'm not using anymore but there is my RA Percival's test hosting
package and if you click on that missing package it will take you to the panel.
But I will warn you it takes up to an hour for hosting packages to be fully set up so you might want
to go away.
Have a cup of tea and then come back when the time has passed.
Damn that all right let's go.
So I'm going to click on the hosting package and that will redirect me to the see panel so at the top
here we've got all of our file options.
We'll be looking at the file manager and a bit more detail in a moment.
Then we've got our email options so we can create mailboxes access web mail set up forwarding and various
other things to do with email.
Note that they will only work if you have your own domain name so you will need to purchase a domain
name to use email.
Then further down we've got lots of options which we'll be using later on in the course of various stat's
features databases and a lot more.
I'm not going to go into all of them now but feel free to post the video and have a click around.
If you want to see what's available.
So first off I'm just going to quickly show you how to use file manager to edit your files.
So here are the files in your hosting package.
So we're going to double click on public HVM L and this is where you put all your documents that form
your website and you can see that the home page is indexed top HP.
Now ph is another programming language which we'll talk about later in the course on the web hosting.
You can name your pages either Toppi HP or dot HTL all but on your computer you'll need to use dot TNL.
So if we want to edit the home page we just control or right click and click edits and then we can get
back over to our text editor.
I'm going to use command a control on Windows to select all of this text and then copy that and then
use command a to select all of this text and command or control the two pasted in.
So this now is all of our code for our page that we created but it's on index indexed page here on our
hosting.
So let's say that there we go.
And then it's saved and now we can go back to our panel and if we want to see that page in action then
we can click temp web address here and click visit web site and there you go.
So this is your Web site live on the web and you can share this link with anyone and they will be able
to see your web site.
Notice how it appears under this Web address and if you don't purchase the domain name then you'll need
to use this to refer to your website when you're sharing it with people.
So if you want to use your Web site as an actual Foleo site or a blog or something like that you probably
want to purchase the domain name but that's completely up to you.
So that's as far as we're going to go in this video.
But there is one more thing I'd like to show you before we move on.
And that is you'll notice that using the file manager is not particularly convenient.
We don't want to have to be copying and pasting from our text editor every time we want to update our
site.
So there's a much better way to access your files and that is through something called T.P. F-Type is
short for file transfer protocol and is essentially an easy way of uploading and editing files on your
website.
You'll need to download a couple of bits of free software and I'll lead you through how to do that in
the next video.